# Wayne's World: Find Wayne's Heart
#### Video Demo:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5iNJurKuDE>
#### Description:
My project is a 2D RPG-styled game called Wayne’s World: Find Wayne’s Heart. The premise of the game is for Wayne to find the hidden heart on the map.

The game was built using the Love2D framework and coded in Lua. Through the construction of this project, I’ve had support from the Love2D forum as well as from Challacade, a YouTube instructor on building projects similar to these. The character sheet and map tiles used to build the game was provided from Challacade.

In the source code, there are three distinct sections that determine the function of the code. The code is broken into “load”, “update”, and “draw” sections. The load function allows me to upload character sheets, define variables, load music, and create tables that contains key-value pairs. These key-value pairs holds coordinates that determines player location and movement. The movement is then implemented in the update function. The update function allows for player movement and plays a role in updating the user screen in realtime. Lastly, the draw function’s main role is creating the character and map and making it visible to the user. This format of creating the “load”, “update”, and “draw” functions is the typical design, and albeit essential, for creating games using the Love2D framework.

Besides using the Love2D scaffold functions, I imported libraries, anim8, sti, and windfield that creates character animation, the map, and physics of the world, respectively. The animation aspect utilizes a character sheet that contains multiple views and versions of the character and with anim8, I was able to create the illusion of movement by quickly toggling between the different versions of the character. This animation was then linked to the pressing of keys. I added the additional feature of allowing the character to walk faster when the spacebar is held down at the same time as a directional key. Lastly, the most crucial piece of creating a realistic virtual world is inserting physics into the game. Before windfield was implemented, the character was able to walk through walls. With windfield, I made the character a collider as well as the visible walls and trees so the character can only walk within the confines of the collider objects.

All in all, this project was a great starting point for me to explore my future interests in computer science. There were a couple of game features I hoped to implement but was unable to yet due to a lack of foundational knowledge. I wanted to implement a feature that once Wayne touches the heart, the heart can be collected and a message box appears with a congratulatory message. I’ve implemented a “exit game” pop-up message when “q” is pressed, however, that does not carry out a function currently. Although I’ve had a fair amount of guidance from Challacade in creating the game, I was able to use his instruction to add features of my own, such as creating additional collider objects, pop-up messages, and a “speed-up” feature on character movement. Having a solid fundamental understanding of computer programming from the course has allowed me to apply what I’ve learned to other computer programming languages.

CS50 was a fantastic course! Thank you for making it available to everyone. 